# Course Introduction 

Welcome to the JavaScript and jQuery Course! This document will overview getting started for the class.


### Course Outline
The layout of the course is available at <http://hackeryou.com/javascript-jquery-outline/>. This is likely to change over time, but is a great overview of everything we will be learning.

### Asking Questions

You are going to have tons and tons of questions, over the next couple of months and I want to make sure everyone is comfortable. 

* During teaching, you can ask a question at any time - just throw your hand up. If you are thinking of a question, chances are there are at least a few others in the class with the same questions. The back and forth that questions bring up makes the class better!
* Slack is the best place to ask a question off hours - in our room, or in the #JavaScript question. We encourage everyone to ask their questions in the open rather than messaging someone directly because:
	* Many people watch Slack just to see how problems are solved as it improves their problem solving skills
	* There are _hundreds_ of people available to help at all hours - I monitor it all day, but if I'm not around, someone always is!
	* Don't worry if you aren't sure of the technical language to use - just ask it the best you can, and we will figure it out!


## Tools

Using the right tools while developing JavaScript is very important and will speed up your development process.

Over the coming months, we will be introducing new tools that aid in the development of JavaScript. In order to be ready for this, make sure we have the following installed on our computers for the class.

### Google Chrome

Google chrome the browser of choice for developing applications at HackerYou because of the powerful developer tools. While all other browsers also have these tools, we find the Chrome dev tools to be the best at the moment. 

<https://www.google.ca/chrome/>


### Sublime Text

Having everyone on the same text editor helps with a number of things including pair programming and future packages that we will install such.

Please make sure you are running on Sublime Text 3. <http://www.sublimetext.com/3> and have installed package control <https://sublime.wbond.net/installation>. If you need any help getting these installed, please grab a mentor and we will be happy to help!


#### Emmet 
Make sure to install the Emmet package for Sublime Text if you haven't already.


### Node JS

Node.js is essentially JavaScript that can run on your computer rather than in the browser. While almost all of the JavaScript we will be writing is done in the browser, a few of the tools we will be using require node.js. The installer for Windows, Linux and Mac can be found at <http://nodejs.org/>. Once installed, there is no further action you need to take just yet. 

### Chat

We will be using a client called Slack to have a class-wide chat room. This room will allow us to easily share code snippets and links during class as well as offer up an easy way to talk with classmates off-hours. 

You should have received an email inviting you to Slack - <https://slack.com/>

There are options to turn off the notifications, which I recommend turning off the highest level. 

